README.md, before:

# Carbon Footprint Tracker

A web application supporting UN Sustainable Development Goal 13: Climate Action by helping users track and reduce their carbon footprint.

## Quick Start

1. Start the application:
```bash
./start-app.sh
```
This will start all services and open the application in your browser.

2. Stop the application:
```bash
./stop-app.sh
```

## Features

- Personal carbon footprint calculator
- Goal setting and progress tracking
- Personalized recommendations for reducing emissions
- Achievement sharing and social impact visualization
- Interactive dashboard with historical data

## Tech Stack

- Frontend: React.js with TypeScript
- Backend: Node.js with Express
- Database: MongoDB
- Containerization: Docker
- Styling: Tailwind CSS

## Access Points

- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend API: http://localhost:4000
- MongoDB: mongodb://localhost:27017

## Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose

## Development

- Frontend development server: `http://localhost:3000`
- Backend API: `http://localhost:4000`
- MongoDB: `mongodb://localhost:27017`

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Update README and scripts to include Nginx integration

README.md, after:

# Carbon Footprint Tracker

A web application supporting UN Sustainable Development Goal 13: Climate Action by helping users track and reduce their carbon footprint.

## Quick Start

1. Start the application:
```bash
./start-app.sh
```
This will start all services and open the application in your browser.

2. Stop the application:
```bash
./stop-app.sh
```

## Features

- Personal carbon footprint calculator
- Goal setting and progress tracking
- Personalized recommendations for reducing emissions
- Achievement sharing and social impact visualization
- Interactive dashboard with historical data

## Tech Stack

- Frontend: React.js with TypeScript
- Backend: Node.js with Express
- Database: MongoDB
- Containerization: Docker
- Styling: Tailwind CSS

## Access Points

- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend API: http://localhost:4000
- MongoDB: mongodb://localhost:27017

## Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose

## Development

- Frontend development server: `http://localhost:3000`
- Backend API: `http://localhost:4000`
- MongoDB: `mongodb://localhost:27017`

## Nginx Integration

This project can be integrated with Nginx for production deployment. The Nginx configuration is available in a separate repository:

- [Carbon Tracker Nginx](https://github.com/yourusername/carbon-tracker-nginx)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

MIT License
